Welcome back in the previous step we created a table in the in-memory database and we saw that all the data
is properly populated.
In this day what we'll do is we'll try and use the data from the database to return as the response
for this service.
So the input to the service is from and to.
So I would get the from currency to currency and the output we expect back from the server is most
importantly the conversion value.
How can I convert a USD to INR.
So that's the value we would want to be able to retrieve from the database.
So we would want to be able to search the row by from currency and to currency Let's start creating
a repository I'll create a new class new class and I'll call this exchange value repository.
Entity name followed by the repository.
thing is repository should actually be an interface so a public interface should extend what should
it extend.
If you have remembered the interaction JPA stuff it should extend JPA repository that to things that you have
to pass in the first one is what is the type of the entity that it manages its exchange value and what
it the type of the ID field let's organize the imports.
Actually it should be a small pa.
It's a JPA repository exchange value and long.
Now this will provide me the default method.
So if I have exchange value repository an instance of it over here exchange value repository I'll say repository
and I can auto wire it in and make it private as well and now I can use the method from the repository.
So if I said repository dot there are a lot of methods that the repository provides.
It will allow us to find different things by id it will be allowing us to find all the rows and it
will be allowing us to find all and do all sorts and a lot of find methods which are present in there.
But what we wanted to do is to search based on the from and the to if you want to do such kind of things
with spring data JPA we have to provide something called the query method.
How do we search rows in the table buy from and to we provide the query method.
So how do we create a query method.
I'll go to the exchange value repository.
And what do we want to do.
We want to do find by two columns right which two columns we want to find by from and to find by from
and to string from Spring to.
And what is the response that we expected back that's another instance of the exchange value.
Its very simple.
Its find by using the common thing.
And then the two columns that you would want to find the by we would want to find by from and to if you
do find by from and just pass in a single parameter string from it will turn based on the from.
If I say find by from and to it will use the combination it will use from and 2 to be able to search
this.
This is all the magic of spring data.
JPA once you provide a method definition like this spring data JPA would provide the implementation
for us to be able to search the table by using the from the to now lets use this method inside the controller.
So in the controller I can call this by repository dot find by from and to and pass the from and to variables so now instead
of using the exchange value from here instead of reading it ourselves I would use this repository by
dot find by from and to.
And I would set the port and return it let's save this down want the application has started and pick the change up
let's refresh.
You're seeing right now that we are getting the value from the database the most important thing is
the ID ten thousand one and we hardcoded it we gave it a different ID.
So ten thousand one USD INR 65 you can also try by passing in from as EUR to INR you can see that EUR
INR conversion multiple is 75 and port is eight thousand.
So what we are doing right now is when you pass the currency so EUR to INR what is happening
is query gets fire to the database.
Where is the query.
You can see the query in here so you can see the entire query down here.
Let's copy this out.
You can see the whole thing.
So currency from is equal to this and currency to is equal to this a query is getting fired we are retrieving the
value from the database.
And we are returning it back as a response for this specific service.
With this step our currency exchange service is ready from the next step on we would start focusing
on the currency conversion service is until then bye bye.